 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AQA Geography A-level 
 
Changing Places 
Glossary of Definitions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
www.pmt.educationAccessibility ​ - How easy it is to travel to a place or interact with an individual.  
Attachment ​ - A sense of binding to a particular location due to positive and intense  
experiences. 
Built Environment ​ - The buildings and infrastructure within an urban area. 
Capital ​ ​- Productive assets, goods or financial stakes.  
Commuter ​ - An individual who regularly travels a distance between their residence and  
their employment. 
Cultural Enrichment​ ​- The addition of ideas, traditions and beliefs due to the arrival of new  
people. 
Culture​ - The way of life of a particular group of people at a particular time, generally  
customs and beliefs. 
Demographic​ - The characteristics of a population. 
Deprivation ​ - Individuals lack basic services or objects they would expect to have in the  
21​st ​Century. 
Diversity ​ - Variation within a population, in their characteristics, background and behaviour.  
Endogenous Factor ​- Factors based on local characteristics or perspective originating  
from inside the place. 
Ethnicity​ - The cultural background of a group of people, often based on religion or country  
of origin. 
Ethnic Clustering - ​Residential areas with similar cultures, ethnicity or religions. This may  
be to avoid isolation or to live locally to special services and facilities (places of worship,  
local shops, etc.)  
Exogenous Factor - ​Factors based on characteristics or perspective originating from  
outside the place, commonly referred to as flows.  
Experienced Places - ​Locations a person has visited in their lifetime. 
Far Places ​ - Places that feel distant, physically or emotionally. 
Genius Loci ​ - The ‘spirit’ of a place, based on its history, culture and daily atmosphere.  
Gentrification ​ - Renovation of older/deteriorating buildings or areas with the aim of  
attracting high-income individuals or elite businesses to a place.  
Governance ​ - The management of a place or group of people. 
www.pmt.educationIdyll ​ - A location with ideal living conditions and good qualities. Often based on a  
perception. 
Inequality ​ - Differences in income, well-being and wealth between individuals, communities  
and society. 
Insiders ​- People who feel like they are ‘part of’ a place; they feel included within the place  
and have a strong connection to it.  
Internal Migration​ - The movement of people within a country.  
International Migration ​ - The movement of people from one country to another. 
Life Expectancy ​ ​- The average number of years an individual is likely to live, determined at  
birth. 
Lived Experience​ ​- The contribution of experiences and opportunities to an individual’s  
views and values. 
Locales​ - Locations of different daily activities, e.g. school, theatre, shops, etc.  
Media ​ - The publishing of information and production of entertainment (e.g. BBC, local  
newspapers, radio stations). 
Media Places​ - Places an individual hasn’t visited but has a reputation based from media  
representation. 
Multicultural​ - The existence, acceptance or promotion of multiple cultural traditions within  
a single geographic area. 
Near Places​ - Places that feel close, physically or emotionally. 
Outsiders ​ - People who feel like they are not ‘part of’ a place; they feel isolated and may  
not have a strong connection to the place.  
Perception​ - A person’s view of a place or issue based on feelings, experience and outside  
forces such as the media. 
Placelessness​ - Places that lack unique character or reputation, due to chain stores  
replacing local independent shops or a lack of attachment experienced by people visiting  
the location. 
Population Density​ - The number of people per square kilometre. 
Rebranding ​ - Creating a new look or reputation for an area. 
Segregation ​ - The separation of a group from other groups this can be through force or  
voluntarily. Segregation can often occur due to housing strategies or regeneration projects.   
www.pmt.educationSocial Clustering ​ - Groups of people with similar background frequently living together.  
Social Exclusion ​ - The inability of a group of people to become involved in the cultural  
activities of a place. 
‘The Other’ ​ - People of different background or identity to an individual. 
Urbanisation ​ - An increase in the proportion of a population living within urban areas.  
www.pmt.education